Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
For my application, Weight Tracker, I was required to develop an application with atleast 3 pages. One page needed to be a login screen. This needed to be able to also take information for new users to create a login for them. There also needed to be a way for users to enter data that would be displayed in a grid. They needed to be able to add or remove this data if necessary. The application also needed sms permission and a way to alert or notify users when their goal was reached. This application was designed to track users weight and compare if with a target goal that they set themselves. When the goal was reached they would be notified.
What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
For this application there needed to be a login screen, a screen the displayed the users data, a way for users to input data, and a way for users to enable sms permissions for the application. When designing I tried to keep the user in mind by designing simple layouts that would flow with the user. I did not want to overwhelm the user or require extra steps if they were not necessary. My designs were successful because they did not overwhelm the user. It was easy for the user to find what they needed to. I also tried to simplify the process of logging in and creating a new account.
How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?
When coding my application I tried to use industry best practices and follow industry standards. I commented my coding when I could to add context. I also tried testing and debugging my code as often to avoid major issues. 
How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?
Testing was done with the virtual device provided in Android Studio. This was a useful tool that I have not used before. Testing helps to reveal issues with that application. It also helps to reveal possible design flaws. I think testing is important because we are developing an application for users and without testing we would not be giving users the best product we could.
Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
During the development of the application I felt that some changes to the design were needed. I felt that it would improve the flow for the user if these changes were made. The challenge was to simplify the process of logging in and creating a new account. I decided to combine the two processes on the same screen to eliminate the need for new users to be directed to another screen.
In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I think I was successful in the development of the application. I was flexible when necessary and able to make changes that were needed for the application. I think my flexibility helped me to be successful with the application. As a new developer I do still have a lot to learn to increase my knowledge and skills to add to my experience so I can be a better developer.
